# Design Notes

## Streaming STT Behaviour

1. What partials are and when they arrive? When STT is done through streaming, voice from the clients are sent as chunks to the server and the transcript for that chunk will be generated by the STT provider. Those are generated with the given context and the audio chunk and the transcript can change later as well affected by the latter audio chunks and the additional context later audio chunks may carry. The partials will arrive as soon as the chunk size hit and the transcript will be created for that
2. What are finals and when they arrive? As a logical end (sentance end or silence comes in a conversation) for a continuous audio come from the audio streaming client arrives the transcript is finalized and those finalized transcript is called as finals.

## Utterance Lifecycle

- `first_audio_ts` - Timestamp when the first audio chunk hit the server
- `first_partial_ts` - Timestamp when the first partial is generated and arrives in server
- `final_ts` - Timestamp when the first complete audio segment transcript arrives in server
- `first_word_latency` - The time required to generate the first word in the transcript. `first_partial_ts - first_audio_ts`
- `total_utterance_latency` - Time difference between first utterance completed and the completed final transcript of that utterance is generated. `final_ts - first_audio_ts`

## Commit Strategy

1. What do you do when a partial arrives? Pass it to client/display it. But keep it temporary and treat it like the transcript can change in future.
2. What do you do when a final arrives? Finals are the confirmed final transcript from the model. Commit it, if there are any differences between the partials, overwrite it
3. What do you do if another partial arrives after a final for the same utterance? Discard it.
